Lecture 1 and lecture 2(1st hour)

This folder contains an example on shapes,
to illustrate:

x0. Hard and harder (Book opening)
Design, OO, Reuse. Gave example with entrance design.
x1. class and object, methods and data members
x2. unit testing
x3. inheritance:
   Circle and Square, and Shape
x4. function working with objects:
   vector of of shapes, printing shapes
x5. polymorphism: virtual, late binding
x6. Incremental and iterative coding
   (coding-refactoring cycles)

UML should be used throughout the illustration.

Problem. A program is needed for representing
various 2D shapes including circles, squares,
lines, etc. The program also computes sums of
areas and perimeters of multiple shapes stored in
a properly chosen container.

Constraint: demonstrate the program through
unit tests.

When adding new features, we want to avoid changing
existing code as much as possible

Circle-> Circle area-> sum of areas of Circle
repeat for squares
repeat for circles and squares

Lecture 2 (2 hrs): Introduction to Design patterns
(minus Design, Design problem).
Problem: Composite with shapes

Week 2

Summary of wk 1
Program to an implementation (class)
Cover basic object concepts and notations -
"Specifying Object Implementations"
Recite: p18

Evolution
When is a design stable?
It is when you can extend it by adding
similar things without
changing the existing code.
So when is  areaSum stable?
It is so when you can have it compute
area of any newly added
shape without changing its code and
other shapes code.

So our goal has been making areaSum stable

We need inheritance, virtual, overriding,
pointer to object, container
Polymorphism = inheritance + virtual +
               override + pointer or ref to base class

"Program to an interface, not an implementation."

Anticipating pattern -
problem: make area sum and existing classes stable
Solution: polymorphism
Consequence: new shapes added without changing existing code
At this stage, we say that polymorphism solves our design problem

Onward composite pattern

HW#1
Previously, a program solving the following has been written:

    Problem. A program is needed for representing
    various 2D shapes including circles, squares,
    lines, etc. The program also computes sums of
    areas and perimeters of multiple shapes stored in
    a properly chosen container.

Making use of the program in of 0922-2015, complete the following requirements
(1) Add Rectangle class to Shape family.
(2) We need Graphics objects. A Graphics object is either a SimpleGraphics object,
which refers to an object of the Shape family, or can be a CompositeGraphics objects,
which refers to number of Graphics objects.
(3) A Graphics object has a bounding box which is a Rectangle. Bounding boxes for circle,
square, and rectangle are specified in the unit tests.
(4) Similarly, bounding boxes for Graphics objects are specified in the unit tests.

(a)  I have written 10 unit tests. Your job is to add code to project Shapes0915
    (as of 0922-2015)so that the program compiles correctly and the tests pass.
    (90 points; 9 points for passing a test)
(b) Draw a UML class diagram for Shape family and Graphics family. Include in your
    diagram the member functions and data members used in these programs. (10 points)

Week 3: typhoon, no class

week 4:
Other first principles: composition, delegate, generics

hour 1&2.
review of Hw1
0 How to read ref solution?
1 student question -> virtual and pure virtual (2 slides)
2 Composite relies on polymorphism and composition.
3 Composite works best for data objects that are created,
manipulated, and destroyed dynamically. A generative,
recursive mechanism.
Examples: Groupings of Graphics created in a drawing
          application.
4 Go through the Composite pattern
5 Explain composition in SimpleGraphics->Shape

"Favor object composition over class inheritance.

    How to have abstract class with methods with default implementation,
    but not allowing instance to be created?
    An pure virtual method prevents default implementation.
    1. protected constructor
    2. public, virtual destructor: when you want polymorphic subclass through base
       class pointer (avoiding memory leak)
    3. virtual method with default
    4. subclassing with public inheritance
    see this example in the code example in Composite.
    exercise in class: prevents Graphics class to have instances.

*Design
The composition from SimpleGraphics ->
Shape is a design choice.
Alternative: impose Composite on Shape family.

But then what about making pictures part
of the composition?
Would making picture a shape make sense?
(What does shape and picture have in common?)

Context: recursive composite objects with a tree
structure are created from different types
of primitives. New, unknown primitives may
be added to the composite.

Forces:
1. you want composition to be simple,
   so make picture a shape.
2. shape and picture are sufficiently
    different that picture should not be a shape.

Solution:
(a) Use composition from composite to
   shape and picture.
(b) Make shape and picture different families.

Consequences:
*Easy to add new primitives to the composite
*Can have new type of composite hierarchy created as needed, e.g., solid models
from shapes.
* keeps shapes, pictures. etc, separated.

Week 5

Add operations to Graphics
(1) Adding the operation to Graphics family alone.
(2) Adding the operation outside Graphics by
    applying the Visitor pattern.

Example
Problem:
  Compute the total area of primitive shapes in
  a Graphics object

Forces:
a. Want to use simple design
b. Want to keep interface of Graphics simple

Consequences
(1) Simple design indeed, but Graphics interface
    bloats as you add more operations.

    Must find reasonable default operation that are
    applicable to objects in the tree.

    Graphics provide the structure (tree),
    we may need to have many operations
    working on the tree.

(2) All operations to be performed on the tree structure
    are conducted in the same way.

    Operation is placed outside Graphics,
    making the structure simple. Graphics
    keeps only the essential structure maintenance
    operations: add, delete, boundingBox.

    Operations performed more indirectly
    and are more difficult to understand.

describe (* example in class)

getGraphicsAt(Point p):
  retrieve all composites and primitives that include
  p in its bounding box by the order they are stored in the tree

sequence diagram: shows object interaction
class diagram: show how classes are related

Visitor pattern.

HW#2
distributed: 1006-2015, in class
due: 1013-2015, 11:59 pm
Previously in HW#1, you wrote a program that composes Graphics
objects, where a SimpleGraphics object points to a Shape object.

Making use of the program of 1006-2015, complete the following requirements
(1) Make AreaVisitor subclass of the abstract class GraphicsVisitor.
    GraphicsVisitor should declare the interface operations of a
    visitor.
(2) Add an operation "describe" to Graphics through an object of class
    DescriptionVisitor, which is a subclass of GraphicsVisitor.
(3) In supporting the operation "describe", you may need to add additional
    member functions. For example, method "describe" which produces for a Circle
    of center (0,0) and radius 2)the string "C(0,0,2)".

(a) I have written 5 unit tests. Your job is to add code to project as of 1006-2015
    so that the program compiles correctly and the tests pass.
    (90 points; 18 points for passing a test)
(b) Draw a UML class diagram for Shape family, Graphics family, and the Visitor family.
    Include in your diagram the member functions and data members used in these
    programs. (10 points)

week 6
hw2 review
The Maze Game
Factory method
Builder
